# Английский язык

## Даты

### 2024.01.15

p100 ex1A

1. a; d
2. Great detail, clarity, clarity, realism
3. a - Economists; b - architects; c - cartographers; d - car engineers
4. Engineers for design; surveyors for geodetic maps, etc.

p100 ex1C

1. Raster graphics represent images using pixels, where each pixel has a specific color value. On the other hand, vector graphics use mathematical formulas to create shapes and lines, allowing for infinite zoom without loss of quality.
2. JPEG; GIF; TIFF; EPS
3. Compositing is merge multiple images to make a single final image
4. Computer Aided Design
5. Computer graphics can be used to design, model, and test car designs before manufacturing physical parts; this can save money and time.
6. GIS (Geographic Information Systems)
7. Computer animation is used by animators to create
cartoons or to add effects in movies and video games.

p102 ex1D

1. e
2. d
3. a
4. f
5. b
6. c

p102 ex2B

1. of creating
2. adding
3. by clicking
4. at performing
5. by testing; before making
6. Rendering

p42 ex1 (wb)

1. images
2. interface
3. palette
4. graphs
5. shading
6. pixel
7. icons
8. designer

RESULT: graphics

p42 ex2 (wb)

1. g
2. pp
3. g; adj
4. pp
5. pp
6. adj
7. g; pp

p42 ex3 (wb)

1. working
2. watching
3. buying
4. hearing
5. traveling
6. waiting
7. living

p42 ex4 (wb)

1. doing
2. visiting
3. protesting
4. laughing
5. scaling
6. spanding
7. performing
8. testing

p43 ex5 (wb)

- I have stopped building ziggurat. I need to build a ziggurat. I need more gold to build a ziggurat.
- I must remember to build ziggurat.
- I remember building ziggurat when i was a child.
- I woukd like to build ziggurat.
- I can't stand seeing traps & femboys.
- I'm used to troll femboys.
- I like playing computer games.

### 2024.01.22

p103 ex3A

1. Toolbox is a set of drawing tools that allow you to manipulate images in graphics software.
2. Primitives are the basic forms used to create graphical objects. These are usually geometries, such as lines, circles, etc.
3. Attributes are the color, line type, fill area, interior style, etc. of each primitive.
4. Translation means moving an object to another location.

p103 ex3B

1. painting
2. select
3. make
4. clicking
5. draw
6. drawing
7. rotating
8. turning
9. scaling

p103 ex3C

1. b
2. j
3. a
4. i
5. g
6. c
7. h
8. e
9. f
10. d

p104 ex4

1. f
2. e
3. c
4. d
5. a
6. b

### 2024.03.11

p120 ex1B

The process of writing a program using a computer language.

p120 ex2A

1. c
2. a
3. d
4. e
5. b

p120 ex2C

1. Understand the problem and plan a solution.
2. Make a flow chart of the program.
3. Write instructions in a programming language.
4. Compile the program (to turn it into machine code).
5. Test and debug the program.
6. prepare documentaion.

p121 ex3A

fortran; cobol; basic; pascal; visual basic; c; c++; java

p122 ex3B

1. computer don't understand human language, bacause they understand only machine code.
2. converting a program into machine code
3. to create programs more easily and to ensure cross-platform compatibility
4. C; Pascal; JS; Python
5. compiler transalte the program runs. Interpreter translate the cource code into machine code line-by-line as the code runs.
6. Because they use instructions called markup tags to format and link text files.

p122 ex3C

1. xml
2. fortran
3. java
4. voicexml
5. cobol

### 2024.03.18

p50 ex1

Верхняя левая точка (1, 1)

1. PROGRAMMER (1, 11)
2. DEBUGGER (4, 10)
3. BUGS (6, 1)
4. FLOWCHART (1, 1)
5. PASCAL (11, 3)
6. COMPILER (3, 1)
7. DEBUG (4, 10)
8. BASIC (6, 1)
9. PROGRAM (1, 11)
10. RAM (5, 5)

p50 ex2

1. program
2. flowchart
3. language
4. compiled
5. errors
6. debugging
7. documentation

p50 ex3

1. flowchart is a diagram showing the logical relationship between
    the various of the program.
2. high-level languages.
3. debugging is a process of correcting errors.

p50 ex4

1. meeting
2. spending
3. to do
4. understand
5. remove
6. live
7. to buy

p50 ex5

1. b
2. c
3. c
4. c
5. a
6. b
7. a
8. a

p51 ex6

2. to take   break
3. to join
4. to put on their sent belts
5. not to fight
6. not to smoke
7. to be quiet
8. not to touch the cables because it is dangerous

## Тексты

### Текст 1 (Multimedia)

1. Multimedia refers to technologies and applications that integrate different types of media – text, sound, images, video, graphics.
2. Multimedia system consists of hardware and software.
3. Hardware includes a CPU, a lot of RAM, a motherboard and peripherals.
4. Peripherals include a monitor, a hard drive, a DVD drive, a sound card, a headphones, a decent microphone.
5. Software includes media player, audio and video editing software, hypermedia databases

### Текст 2 (DTP)

1. First, the DTP designer decides the basic form of the document (the type of document, general design, colour, fonts, images required, etc.). 
2. To create the DTP document, the designer begins by selecting a template or by specifying the settings of a new document (the page size, margins, etc.). 
3. Then he types the text directly or imports it from a program like Word or WordPerfect.  
4. After editing the designer imports the pictures and uses precise tools to position, scale, crop and rotate all the items. 
5. Once the file is composed and saved, the designer exports the file in HTML format for the Web. 
6. Finally he takes the files to a service bureau for printing.

### Текст 3 (Steps in programming)

1. Programming is the process of writing a program using a programming language.
2. We normally follow these steps:
3. First of all, understand the problem and plan a solution.
4. The next step is to design a plan of instructions in flowchart – a diagram show how the computer works through the program.
5. Next, write the instructions in a programming language. (called source code)
6. next step, use compiler, a program that converts the source code into machine code.
7. After you have written the program, test it to see if there are any errors. This process is called debugging.
8. Finally, write program documentation – a description how to use the program.

### Текст 4


### Текст 5


