# Английский язык


## Текст 1

The set of program instructions that tell the computer what to do is known as software. It can be classified into two basic categories.

- the system software, which includes all the programs that control the basic functions of a computer (e.g. operating systems, programming software, device drivers and utilities).

- the application software, which compares programs that let you do specific tasks. Typical application include word processing, databases, educational programs, email and video games.

The operation system is a set of program that control the hardware and software resources of a computer system. Typical functions include handling input/output operations, running programs and organizing files on disks.

## Текст 2

1) A spreadsheet program is normally used in business for financial planning.
2) It's like a large piece of paper divided into column is labelled with a number.
3) Each column is labelled with a letter and each row is labelled with number.
4) The point where a column and a row intersect is called a cell.
5) You cell can hold three types of information text, numbers and functions.
6) You can update the information in different worksheets by linking cells.
7) This means that when you make a change in one worksheet the same change is made in the other worksheet.
8) Information can be visualized in different ways, such as line graphics, bar or pie charts.

## Текст 3

A database program allows the user to store, change and retrieve information. A database file is a collection of records. Each record contains a set of fields. Each fields holds a separate piece of information.

In a relational database, information is stored in tables that have a connection or link with one another.

A database lets you create an index,
this helps you search and sort records into numerical or alphabetical order very fast. It also has a query function which allows you to extract information that meets certain criteria.

## Текст 4

The Internet Connection

To connect to the Internet from home I need:
A computer and a modem.
Also I need an account with an ISP provider (a company the offers connection for a monthly fee).
If you want to connect lots of computers without using cables, you can use a wireless router.
Wi-fi uses radio waves to send data over medium-range distances.
Things you can do on the Internet:
Send emails, look for information on the web, transfer files.
The Web is the huge collection of pages stored on computers all over the world. The Internet is the network which connects all the computers.

## Текст 5


